Translator: Iris Xholi Reviewer: Helena Bedalli
I will never forget that day
of the spring of 2006.
I was a resident surgeon
at Johns Hopkins Hospital
in accepting emergency calls.
Around 2 a.m. I was notified by ER
to go see a woman with diabetic ulcer
at her feet.
I still remember that kind of rotten blood smell,
as I was pulling the curtain to see it.
Everyone there thought that woman was very ill
and needed to be hospitalized.
This was not discussed.
The question I posed was another,
did she need amputation?
Now, turning our heads back to that night
I would desperately want to believe that I treated that woman,
that night, with the same empathy and compassion
which I showed to the 27-year-old newlywed
which came to ER three days ago
with low back pain
which turned out to be advanced pancreatic cancer.
In her case, I knew there was nothing I could do
that would save his life.
The cancer was very advanced.
But I was committed to making sure that
I would do everything possible to make her feel
more comfortable. I brought him a warm blanket
and a cup of coffee.
I also brought it to her parents.
But look, the most important thing is that I didn’t prejudice him,
because it was clear that she had done nothing
that could cause this to itself.
Then, how is it possible that a few nights later,
to stay in the same emergency room and set
that my diabetic patient needed amputation,
why did I say that in such a bitter way?
The difference is that in contrast to the woman the night before,
this woman suffered from type 2 diabetes.
She was healthy.
And we all know that this comes as a result of eating too much
and lack of physical activity, right?
I mean, how hard can it be?
As I watched him lie down I thought to myself,
as if you cared very little,
you would not be in this state now
with a doctor you had never seen before
preparing to cut your leg.
Why did I feel justified in judging her?
I would like to say that I do not know.
But this is not true.
With the pride of my youth,
I thought I had psychologized it.
She has eaten a lot. She has been unlucky.
He contracted diabetes. That's the job.
Strangely, at that time,
I was researching cancer,
immune system therapies for skin cancer, to be more precise,
from which I had learned that I should have doubts about everything,
not to take anything for granted
and to measure with the highest scientific standards.
Meanwhile, when it comes to diabetes
which kills 8 times more Americans than melanoma,
I never put the knowledge to the test until then.
I accepted the welcome,
every link in the chain of pathological causes that led to it.
Three years later, I discovered that I was very wrong.
But this time, I was the patient.
Although I exercised 3-4 hours a day,
and the implementation of precision food pyramids,
I had gained a lot of weight and developed
something called metabolic syndrome.
Some of you may have heard of it.
I was immune to insulin.
You can think of insulin as this all-powerful hormone
that controls what our body does with the foods we eat,
if we store or burn them.
In medical parlance this is called "energy sharing".
Insufficient insulin production is not compatible with life.
And insulin resistance, as the name suggests,
occurs when cells become more and more resistant
from the effects of insulin trying to do its job.
When you become insulin resistant,
you become diabetic,
what happens when the pancreas
cannot withstand resistance and produce enough insulin.
The increase in the amount of sugar in the blood begins,
and a waterfall of pathological problems
get out of control, which can lead to heart problems,
cancer, or even Alzheimer's,
and amputation, just like that woman a few years ago.
With this problem, I started to drastically change my diet,
removing and adding things you would find
obviously shocking.
I did so and lost 20 kg, although I did less exercise.
As you can see, I'm not overweight.
What is more important is that I no longer have insulin resistance.
But even more important are these three questions
which I have left and which do not want to be taken away from me:
How did this happen to me when I was thinking
that I was doing everything right?
If the science of healthy eating has been false,
was that the case for others?
And in analyzing these questions
it became almost fixed
in trying to understand the real connection
between obesity and insulin resistance.
Now, many researchers believe that obesity
is due to insulin resistance.
Logically, when treating insulin resistance,
it forces people to lose weight, doesn't it?
Treats obesity.
What if it's the exact opposite?
What if obesity is not the cause of insulin resistance?
In fact, if it were a synthesis of a much bigger problem,
the tip of an iceberg?
I know it sounds a little weird, because we're in the middle
of an obesity epidemic, but listen to me a little.
What if obesity is a camouflage
of a much more serious problem that
does it have roots in the cell?
I am not suggesting here that obesity is benign,
but what I am suggesting is that it may be the least evil
of the two evils of metabolism.
You can think of insulin resistance as a limited ability
of itself to distribute fuel,
as I referred to a minute ago,
to get the calories we provide with food
and proportionally burn one part and store the other.
When we become insulin resistant,
homeostasis in this type of balancing is disrupted.
So now, when insulin tells the cell,
I want to burn more energy
how safe the cell considers it, in fact it responds,
"No thanks, I'll save that energy."
And since it is not found in fat cells
those complex cellular machines found in other cells,
is the best place to store them.
Many of us, about 75 million Americans,
insulin resistance response
it may be to preserve it in the form of fat and not the other way around,
to have insulin resistance in response to fat.
This is actually a small change,
but with serious consequences.
Consider the following analogy:
Think about the wrinkles you experience on the skin
when you accidentally hit your knee on the coffee table.
Obviously the wound hurts a lot and
you don't like the fact that it's blackened, but we all know it
that the wound itself is not the problem.
In fact, it's the opposite, it's a healthy response to a trauma,
it is the immune cells that run where the damage occurred
to help the cells there and stop
the spread of infection to other parts of the body.
Now, imagine if we thought the wound was actually the problem,
and conduct any research
and medical culture about wound healing:
camouflage cream, painkillers, and many more,
completely ignoring the fact that people
are still crashing into the coffee tables.
How much better would it be if we treated the causes--
telling people to be more careful
as they walk through the living room--
instead of the effect that is created?
Understand the cause and effect,
makes all possible difference.
Wrong, the pharmaceutical industry
can continue to be profitable for its investors
but for people with murdered kerci nothing is improved.
Cause and effect.
What I am suggesting is
that we probably have the wrong cause and effect
when falsification for obesity and insulin resistance.
Maybe we should ask ourselves,
is it possible that insulin resistance causes weight gain?
and obesity-related diseases,
at least in most people?
What if being obese is just a metabolic response
to something much more threatening,
a hidden epidemic,
what should we worry about the most?
Let's take a look at the facts.
We know that 30 million obese Americans
in the USA do not suffer from insulin resistance.
And by the way, they don't seem to be us
any greater risk for disease than weak people.
Meanwhile, we know that 6 million people are weak
in the USA are insulin resistant,
and by the way, they are thought to be at greater risk for
those metabolic diseases I mentioned above,
in contrast to the group of obese.
I don't know why, but maybe it comes as a result of that fact
in their case, the cells have not yet understood it
what to do with excess energy.
So if a person may be obese and may not have insulin resistance,
or he may be weak and have it,
this indicates that obesity may be a camouflage
for what is happening.
So, if we were fighting a wrong war,
to fight obesity instead of insulin resistance?
Even worse, like blaming obese people
does that mean we are blaming the victims?
What if some of our core ideas about obesity
are they wrong
Personally, I can't have it with the luxury of arrogance
let’s not talk then about the luxury of complete security.
I have my own ideas of what the problem might be,
but I am open to suggestions.
My hypothesis, because everyone asks me,
this is.
If you ask yourself, from what it tries to protect the cell
when it becomes resistant to insulin,
the answer is probably no, overeating.
But most likely, excess glucose: blood sugar.
We know that processed cereals
raise blood sugar levels in the short term,
and there is reason to believe that sugar
can lead directly to insulin resistance.
If these psychological processes are put to work,
hypothesizes that it may be the cause of the acquisition
processed cereals, bulk sugar, what it brings
obesity and diabetes epidemic,
but through insulin resistance,
and not as an effect of overeating or not exercising.
When I lost 20 kg a few years ago,
I did it simply by limiting these things,
which suggests that I have a side
based on my personal experience.
But that doesn't mean my side is wrong.
and most importantly, all of this can be scientifically proven.
But the first step is to accept the possibility
that our belief about obesity,
diabetes and insulin resistance may be wrong
and as a result should be tested.
I bet my career on this.
Today, I dedicate all my working time to this problem,
and I will go wherever science takes me.
I have decided that what I can't and will not do again
is to claim that I have the answers when I don't have them.
I was humble about everything I don’t know
Last year, I was lucky enough
that I worked on this problem with a wonderful group
researchers on obesity and diabetes in the country,
and the most beautiful part is that,
as Abraham Lincoln surrounded himself with a group of rivals,
and we have done the same.
We have recruited a working group with rival scientists,
the best and the brightest but they all have their own hypotheses
about what may be at the heart of the epidemic.
Some think it is the large amount of calories consumed.
Others think it's a big consumption of a high-fat diet.
For others, the problem lies in consuming cereals and starch.
But this working group of multi-disciplinary researchers,
quite educated and quite talented,
agree on two things.
First, this problem is very important
to continue to ignore it simply because we think we know the answers.
And second, if we admit we are wrong,
if we accept to challenge the knowledge so far
with the best experiments offered by science,
the problem can be solved.
I know it's pretty tempting for loved ones to learn the answer right now,
policies and measures, dietary recommendations--
eat this, not that--
but if we want to identify it exactly,
we have to do a pretty rigorous science
before we start giving recommendations.
Briefly, to address this, our research program
is focused on about three main topics or questions.
First, how do the different foods we eat affect us?
in metabolism, hormones and enzymes,
and through what molecular mechanism?
Second, based on these data,
can people make the necessary changes to their diet?
in a way that is safe and practical to implement?
And finally, when we identify it
what are the safe and practical changes that people can make to their diet,
how can we direct their behavior in that direction
to become everyday
and not the exception?
Knowing what to do doesn't mean
that you will always do it.
Sometimes it is necessary to put data around people
to make it easier, and believe it or not,
this can be studied scientifically.
I don't know how this trip will end,
but that seems clear to me at least:
We cannot continue to blame overweight and diabetic patients
as I did.
Most of them actually want to do the right gene,
but they need to know what that is,
and should work.
I dream of the day when our patients
will be able to weaken
and cure themselves from insulin resistance,
as a medical professional,
we have sweated our mental baggage
and we have healed ourselves from resisting ideas enough
to return to our ideals of origin:
open mind, with the courage to throw away yesterday's ideas
when they do not yield results,
and understanding that scientific truth is not the last word,
but in constant evolution.
Staying true to that path will be better for our patients
and better for science,
If obesity is nothing but camouflage
of metabolic diseases,
What good is it for us to punish those who suffer from it?
It happens to me to think about the night in the emergency room
7 years ago.
I wish I could talk to that woman again.
I would like to tell you how bad it was for me.
I would tell her that as a doctor, I gave it to her
the best clinical service I could,
but as human beings,
I didn’t handle it properly.
You didn't need my judgment.
You needed my sympathy and regret,
and most of all you needed a doctor
who would be willing to consider
the fact that you could be outside the framework of the system.
Maybe the system, of which I was a part,
did not help you.
If you are watching this now,
I hope you can forgive me.
(Applause)